Coronary arteries supply oxygenated blood to the heart, and cardiac veins drain away the blood once it has been deoxygenated. Heart circulation is
of major importance not only to its own tissues but to the entire body and even the level of consciousness of the brain from moment to moment.
Interruptions of coronary circulation quickly cause myocardial infarctions, in which the heart muscle is damaged by oxygen starvation. Such
interruptions are usually caused by coronary artery disease and sometimes by embolism from other causes like obstruction in blood flow through
vessels. Coronary arteries supply blood to the myocardium and other cardiac components. Two coronary arteries originate from the left side of the
heart at the root of the aorta, just after the aorta exits the LV. There are three aortic sinuses (dilations) in the wall of the aorta just superior to the
aortic semilunar valve. Two of these, the left posterior aortic sinus and anterior aortic sinus, give rise to the LMCA and RCA, respectively. The
third sinus, the right posterior aortic sinus, typically does not give rise to a vessel. Coronary vessel branches that remain on the surface of the
artery and follow the sulci of the heart are called epicardial coronary arteries.(Betts, J. Gordon (2013). Anatomy & physiology. pp. 787–846.
ISBN 1938168135. Retrieved 11 August 2014.)The LMCA distributes blood to the left side of the heart, the LA and LV , and the interventricular
septum(IVS). The LCX arises from the LMCA and follows the coronary sulcus to the left. Eventually, it will fuse with the small branches of the
RCA. The larger anterior interventricular artery, also known as the LAD, is the second major branch arising from the LMCA. It follows the
anterior interventricular sulcus around the pulmonary trunk. Along the way it gives rise to numerous smaller branches that interconnect with the
branches of the posterior interventricular artery(LPD), forming anastomoses. An anastomosis is an area where vessels unite to form
interconnections that normally allow blood to circulate to a region even if there may be partial blockage in another branch. The anastomoses in the
heart are very small. Therefore, this ability is somewhat restricted in the heart so a coronary artery blockage often results in MI death of the cells
supplied by the particular vessel. The RCA proceeds along the coronary sulcus and distributes blood to the RA, portions of both ventricles, and the
Coronary Circulation: An Overview