and its relationship to the AVN artery. It also attempts to give details regarding whether an anastomotic network of small atrial arteries exists in the
same area and what its relation to Kugel's artery and the AVN artery might be. These new anatomical findings may become useful to physicians
who engage in diagnostic and therapeutic procedures that involve this area of the heart (Nerantzis CE1, Marianou SK, Koulouris SN, Agapitos
EB, Papaioannou JA, Vlahos LJ. Kugel's artery: an anatomical and angiographic study using a new technique. Tex Heart Inst J.
2004;31(3):267-70). Professor Gustavo Abuin et al, From Buenos Aires
described 2 vascular conduits that have never before been objectively
shown to supply the conduction system. Twenty human hearts from subjects aged between 15 and 65 years--with and without coronary artery
disease--were dissected after anterograde and retrograde injection with latex butaclor E-650 by means of a technique developed by the authors. In
40% of these hearts, Kugel's artery was found to supply the atrioventricular node. The right descending superior artery supplied the AVN in 70% of
the
hearts
dissected.
These
findings
may
be
of
major
significance
both
in
clinical
cardiology
and
in
cardiovascular
surgery
(https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC325521/pdf/thij00021-0033.pdf). We succeeded in using a new technique to find, and then
describe in detail, vascular courses in the lower part of the interatrial septum. In all of our cases, we observed anastomotic networks of various
sizes. In addition, in 6 of the 100 hearts, we found a Kugel's artery in the same area. Nerantzis et al. described as a Kugel's artery an atrial artery
that connected directly or through the Sinus node artery the proximal part of the LCx or the RCA with the distal part of the vessel where it crossed
the crux. This artery is long and wide, and suitably fulfills the 4 initial descriptive terms given by Kugel: “arteria anastomotica auricularis magna.”
Also Soto et al. and Smith et al. (Soto B, Jochem W, Karp RB, Barcia A. Angiographic anatomy of the Kugel's artery. Am J Roengenol
Radium Ther Nucl Med 1973;119:503–7; Smith C, Amplatz K. Angiographic demonstration of Kugel's artery (arteria anastomotica
auricularis magna). Radiology 1973;106:113–8) have not accepted the term “artery” because they found small atrial branches, but not a vessel so
large in diameter as an artery in the lower part of the interatrial septum. It is strange, however, that they used the term Kugel's artery, despite the