artery, thereby avoiding overlap with the vessels in the atrioventricular groove. The anastomotic network was found in all 100 hearts, connecting
indirectly the proximal and distal parts of the large coronary arteries—via the AVN artery in 66 cases and, in the rest, via small branches from the
artery that crossed the crux. This type of connection via the AVN artery has been described in most of the studies. The sinus node artery or its
branches contributed to the formation of this network, an observation that has been mentioned.
Nerantzis et al. observed the participation of the
right superior descending artery, but they did not describe this in detail because of the small number of cases in which it was found. They believe
that our technique will render satisfactory the postmortem angiographic demonstration of the network in normal hearts, but in vivo arteriographic
demonstration of the network, unlike that of Kugel's artery, will remain very difficult due to the small size of the vessels. In other studies, all these
inter- and intracoronary anastomoses tended to be larger in hearts with stenotic lesions of the major epicardial coronary arteries. Since both
Kugel's artery and the anastomotic network originate from the beginning of the coronary trunks, they have to be taken into consideration in many
surgical procedures involving the aortic root. Moreover, interventional cardiologists who perform procedures involving the lower part of the
interatrial septum, such as radiofrequency ablation and biventricular pacemaker insertion, should be aware of the potential risk of damaging these
important anastomotic branches.
In conclusion, following the observations of Nerantzis et al an anastomotic network of small atrial branches courses through the lower part of
the interatrial septum and in all cases indirectly connects the proximal to the distal ends of the larger coronary arteries, while Kugel's artery,
in 6% of the cases, provides a direct arterial anastomosis in the same area. The knowledge from these findings is important for anatomists,
cardiologists, and cardiac surgeons Figures of slides 56 and 57.