Kugel (Kugel MA. Anatomical studies on the coronary arteries and their branches. I. Arteria anastomotica auricularis magna. Am Heart J
1927;3:260–70.) described an atrial artery that arose from the proximal LCx or from its branches, coursed through the lower part of the interatrial
septum, and in most of his cases (66%) anastomosed directly or through its branches with the distal RCA. In the rest of his cases, the same artery
formed anastomoses with the proximal RCA (26%) or with branches from the anterior portion of the LCx and RCA and the posterior portion of the
LCx (8%). He called this artery “arteria anastomotica auricularis magna” because of its large caliber, the apparent importance of its anastomotic
role, and its consistent occurrence at this site. James (James TN. Anatomy of the coronary arteries. New York: Paul B Hoeber; 1961. p. 132–
4.) and McAlpin (McAlpin WA. Heart and coronary arteries: an anatomical atlas for clinical diagnosis, radiological investigation, and
surgical treatment. New York: Springer-Verlag; 1975. p. 151.) did not accept the existence of such an artery in their anatomical studies. Instead,
they described small atrial branches that arose from either the LCx or the RCA, or even from both arteries, and connected with one another or with
other small atrial branches from the surrounding area, then coursed posteriorly to the base of the interatrial septum and anastomosed with the AVN
artery. Although these authors described an anastomotic network without accepting the existence of an artery, they applied the term “Kugel's
artery” to this network. Moreover, they did not indicate the frequency of the network. On the other hand, angiographic studies have shown the
existence in the same area of a large atrial artery that arises from the RCA or the LCx, or through the SN artery, and anastomoses with the AVN
artery in various percentages (3.6%, 4.5%, and 6%) of cases. These authors, however, emphasize that this artery was found only in cases of severe
atherosclerosis of the large coronary arteries. In the literature mentioned, Kugel's artery was not simple to demonstrate postmortem, and was
extremely difficult to see in coronary arteriograms in vivo. Nerantzis et al, using a large series of specimens and a new technique, attempts to
resolve the confusion in the literature regarding the existence of Kugel's artery, its origin, its ending,
Kugel's artery anatomy