fact that they described only an anastomotic network in this area. Nerantzis et al. found only 6 Kugel's arteries out of 100 normal hearts (6%).
Similar percentages ranging between 3.6% and 6%, albeit in patients with severe atherosclerotic heart disease, have been reported in the literature,
in 3 coronary angiographic studies (Grollman JH Jr, Heger L. Angiographic anatomy of the left Kugel's artery. Cathet Cardiovasc Diagn
1978;4:127–33; Levin DC. Pathways and functional significance of the coronary collateral circulation. Circulation 1974;50:831–7; Soto B,
Jochem W, Karp RB, Barcia A. Angiographic anatomy of the Kugel's artery. Am J Roengenol Radium Ther Nucl Med 1973;119:503–7).
On the other hand, in anatomical studies, the percentage ranged between 40% and 66%. These increased percentages probably included cases with
a large anastomotic network. It is hard to explain why other authors did not report any percentages in their studies. Kugel's arteries originated from
the LCx in 3 hearts and from the RCA in the other 3 (via the sinus node artery in 1 of these last). Nerantzis results, in accordance with previous
publications, clearly demonstrate that this artery does not have a standard point of origin. In their 6 hearts, Kugel's artery was connected directly
with the distal artery after it crossed the crux, keeping a course independent from the AVN artery. The same finding has been described BY
Thompson (Thompson AJ, Froelicher VF. Kugel's artery as a major collateral channel in severe coronary disease. Aerosp Med 1974;
45(11):1276–80). Kugel reported that in some cases his artery connected directly with the distal RCA , while in all other cases it connected via the
AVN artery. Most of the authors who have reported finding Kugel's artery in their anatomical and angiographic studies have mentioned its indirect
connection with the artery that crosses the crux, always through the AVN by Soto and Smith. Kugel's artery is difficult to demonstrate in
postmortem angiography, and it is also difficult to see in vivo, in the usual coronary arteriographic projections. However, with Nerantzis technique,
they succeeded in demonstrating clearly for the 1st time this artery in postmortem angiograms. Nerantzis also believe that Kugel's artery will be
easy to demonstrate in vivo if the right oblique projection is used for the right arteriogram and the left lateral projection for the left arteriogram. In
both projections, a cephalad angle will often help to bring the artery into the middle of the projection, parallel to the AVN