Right Coronary Artery (RCA)  
The RCA is an artery originating above the right cusp of the aortic valve, at the right aortic sinus in the heart. It travels down the right coronary
sulcus, towards the crux of the heart. It branches into the PDA and the right marginal artery. Although rare, several anomalous courses of the RCA
have been described including origin from the left aortic sinus (Angelini, P. (15 July 2014). "Novel Imaging of Coronary Artery Anomalies to
Assess Their Prevalence, the Causes of Clinical Symptoms, and the Risk of Sudden Cardiac Death". Circulation: Cardiovascular Imaging.
7 (4): 747–754. doi:10.1161/CIRCIMAGING.113.000278). At the origin of the RCA is the conus artery. In addition, to supplying blood to the
RV, the RCA supplies 25% to 35% of the LV. In 85% of patients (Right Dominant), the RCA gives off the PDA. In the other 15% of cases (Left
Dominant), the PDA is given off by the LCX. The PDA supplies the inferior wall, ventricular septum, and the posteromedial papillary muscle. The
RCA also supplies the SA nodal artery in 60% of people. The other 40% of the time, the SA nodal artery is supplied by the LCX. The RCA
emerges from the aorta into the AV groove. It descends through the groove, then curves posteriorly, and makes a bend at the crux of the heart and
continues downward in the posterior interventricular sulcus. Within millimeters after emerging from the aorta, the RCA gives off two branches: 1)
the conus (arteriosus) artery which runs to the right ventricular outflow tract, and 2) the atrial branch which gives off the SA nodal artery (in ~ 50-
73% of hearts), which runs along the anterior RA to the SVC , encircling it before reaching the SA node. The RCA continues in the AV groove and
gives off a variable number of branches to the RA and RV. The most prominent of these is the right marginal branch which runs down the right
margin of the heart supplying this part of the RV. As the right coronary curves posteriorly and descends downward on the posterior surface of the
heart, it gives off two to three branches. The AV nodal artery which branches from the RCA at the crux of the heart and passes anteriorly along
the base of the atrial septum to supply the AV node (in 50-60 % of hearts), proximal parts of the bundles branches of His, and the parts of the
posterior interventricular septum that surround the bundle branches.