The papillary muscles of the Mammalians heart
The papillary muscles(PMs) are the involuntary muscles located in the ventricles of the mammalian heart. They are components of the The mitral
valve apparatus. This apparatus has six components: 1) the left atrial wall, 2) the mitral annulus, 3) the mitral valve leaflets, 4) the chordae
tendineae, 5) the papillary muscles, and 6) The left ventricular wall. This is a complex three–dimensional functional unit that is critical to
unidirectional heart pump function. The last one are attach to the cusps of the atrioventricular valves (the mitral and the papillary muscles are the
involuntary muscles which are present in the ventricles of the mammalian heart. They support the tricuspid valves and mitral valves. The
contraction of the papillary muscles opens these values when the papillary muscles relax, the valves get closed. Chordae tendineae connects the
papillary muscles to the valves. Chordae tendineae connects the papillary muscles to the tricuspid valves via the chordae tendineae and contract to
prevent inversion or prolapse of these valves inside de atriums during the ventricular contraction) (Moore KL, et al. 2007). The PMs constitute
about 10% of the total heart mass.
Structure
There are five total papillary muscles in the heart; three in the right ventricle and two in the left. The anterior, posterior, and septal papillary
muscles of the RV each attach via chordae tendineae to the tricuspid valve. There are typically two papillary muscles arising from the area between
the apical and middle thirds of the LV free wall. The anterolateral papillary muscle is often composed of one body or head, whereas the
posteromedial papillary muscle may have two or more heads. Each papillary muscle provides chordae to both leaflets, and the axial relationship of
the chordae prevents chordal abrasion or dyssynchrony. The attachment of the papillary muscles to the lateral wall of the LV indicates that the
ventricle is also an important part of the mitral valve complex. Any change in ventricular geometry that affects papillary muscle position can
change the axial relationship of the chordae and leaflets, resulting in valve dysfunction