conduction system. Normally, one or more marginal arteries arise from the RCA inferior to the RA. The marginal arteries supply blood to the
superficial portions of the RV. On the posterior surface of the heart, the RCA gives rise to the posterior descending artery PAD,. It runs along the
posterior portion of the interventricular sulcus toward the apex of the heart, giving rise to branches that supply the interventricular septum and
portions of both ventricles. (Betts, J. Gordon (2013). Anatomy & physiology. pp. 787–846. ISBN 1938168135. Retrieved 11 August 2014.).
Anastomoses
There are some anastomoses between branches of the two coronary arteries. However the coronary arteries are functionally end arteries and so
these meetings are referred to as potential anastomoses, which lack function, as opposed to true anastomoses like that in the palm of the hand. This
is because blockage of one coronary artery generally results in death of the heart tissue due to lack of sufficient blood supply from the other
branch. When two arteries or their branches join, the area of the myocardium receives dual blood supply. These junctions are called anastomoses.
If one coronary artery is obstructed by an atheroma, the second artery is still able to supply oxygenated blood to the myocardium. However, this
can only occur if the atheroma progresses slowly, giving the anastomoses a chance to proliferate. Under the most common configuration of
coronary arteries, there are three areas of anastomoses. Small branches of the LAD branch of the left coronary join with branches of the PDA of
the RCA in the interventricular sulcus(groove). More superiorly, there is an anastomosis between the LCX (a branch of the LMCA and the RCA in
the atrioventricular groove. There is also an anastomosis between the septal branches of the two coronary arteries in the interventricular septum.
Variation
The left and RCA occasionally arise by a common trunk, or their number may be increased to three; the additional branch being the posterior
coronary artery (which is smaller in size). In rare cases, a person will have the third coronary artery run around the root of the aorta.